I think Israel will, for
an indefinite period will have
the overall security responsibility
because we've seen what happens
when we don't have it.
One month into the war with Hamas,
Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is giving his first indication
of Israel's plans for Gaza
after the fighting ends.
This comes
as more airstrikes could be seen slamming
Gaza City overnight.
The IDF says it has secured
a Hamas military stronghold
in northern Gaza
and struck
a cell of about ten terrorists
in an anti-tank missile cell.
Joining us now is White House
Security Council spokesman John Kirby.
Admiral, I appreciate your time.
I want to start with what we heard
just heard from the prime minister
There has been a lot of discussion
about what would happen
after the military conflict is done.
The president has made
very clear he believes that holding Gaza
that that
a essentially
a reoccupation is not a good idea.
What was your take
on what you heard
from the prime minister?
Well, the president still believes that
a reoccupation of Gaza
by Israeli forces is not good.
It's not good for Israel,
not good for the Israeli people.
Will that
Prime Minister Netanyahu speak to
whatever is post-conflict plans?
Or I can tell you, though,
that one of the conversations
that Secretary Blinken's
been having in the region is, you know,
what does post-conflict Gaza look like?
You know what?
What does governance look like? In Gaza?
Because whatever it is,
it can't be what it was on October six.
It can't be Hamas.
One of the conference is Saudi Arabia.
They're hosting a summit
of Muslim leaders this weekend.
There are reports
that Iran's president
Raisi will attend that summit.
What does that tell you?
What's your response to his attendance?
I know that it tells
us anything too specific.
So I think we're going to have to wait
to see how this plays out
and see what kind of a role,
if they actually show up,
what kind of role they play.
I mean,
our perspective is
Iran is a destabilizing actor
in the region.
They support
groups like Hamas and Hezbollah.
They're supporting these militia groups
that continue to fire rockets
at our bases in Iraq
and in Syria and there.
And they're also supporting Putin's war
in Ukraine.
So it's difficult for us to see
whether Iran would have some sort
of meaningful, constructive,
productive discussion about
about conflict resolution at this point,
given that they're the arsonist here.
But again, we'll have to see
what happens at this
at this meeting this weekend.
You mentioned the rocket attacks on U.S.
personnel.
They've also been one way
drone attacks as well.
I believe there's as many as 38
or 39 U.S.
personnel who have been injured
in those attacks or a number of attacks
that have occurred.
Does the U.S.
believe that at this point,
the threshold for an expanded conflict
has not been crossed yet?
We are
still working very hard
to keep this conflict from widening.
Deepening, escalating.
The attacks on our troops
obviously are deeply concerning.
You've seen us retaliate
in the last week or so.
We'll evaluate what we're going to do
in terms of next steps.
We're obviously going to do
whatever we have to do to protect our
our troops in Iraq and in Syria.
Make sure that we make a strong statement
about force protection
and how much that means to us.
But we haven't seen another nation state
or actor
move in demonstrable
major muscle movement ways
to try to deepen and widen
this conflict as yet.
That's one of the reasons
why the president has added
so much more force posture to the region
now, including a,
you know, an Ohio class submarine
which is now in the Central Command
area of responsibility.
We're going to keep watching this
if we have to make additional force
posture changes where we'll do that, too.
Did you think you'd see the day where
CENTCOM would tweet out
a picture of an Ohio class submarine
in transit?
Well, look, it's
you know,
as you know,
it's it's rare for the United States
Navy or our combatant commanders
to talk about
where our submarines are
and what they're doing.
But in this case,
I think it makes perfect sense
when we're trying to send
a strong signal of deterrence
to actors in the region
so that they don't widen this conflict
to let them know
that we've got yet
additional military capability
at the ready
to defend our national interests.
The president spoke
with the prime minister again yesterday
They've been speaking on a very regular
basis.
Admiral, I was struck
by the former prime minister, Ehud Barak,
gave an interview yesterday
where he was talking about
if he could see the window closing
for the military operation
due to the pressure
from regional allies,
the pressure also of domestic
political pressure at the United States,
as the president conveyed
that to the prime minister,
that there is a very small window
of time to conduct these operations.
Well, I won't
talk about the private conversation
between the president and prime minister.
They have a routine
now sort of dialog
as these operations are are ongoing.
And again, they spoke again yesterday.
One of the things that the president
made clear to the prime minister
is that we're going to continue
to stand with Israel.
We're going to continue
to make sure
that they have the security assistance
they need, the tools,
the weapons, the capabilities
to go after Hamas.
That hasn't changed since October 7th.
And it's not going to change
going forward with these.
I wanted to play for you
sound from Jordan's Queen Rania.
She's been very outspoken.
She's also
Jordan is a very critical
ally in the region for the United States.
Take a listen.
If you
manage to eliminate all of Hamas,
what next?
The root cause of this conflict
is an illegal occupation.
It is routine human rights abuses,
illegal settlements, a disregard to U.N.
resolutions and international law.
If we do not address these root causes,
then you can kill the combatant,
but you cannot kill the cause.
She is of Palestinian
Palestinian descent.
I guess the question is to that point
and for regional leaders
who say the same thing.
What is the response right now?
So we certainly agree that Hamas isn't
just an organization.
There's an ideology behind this
this terrorist group that slaughters 1400
Israelis on the 7th of October.
And while you can go
after the leaders
and eliminate the leaders
and disrupt the network,
and we've proven
that we know how to do that
against groups like al Qaeda and ISIS,
it is difficult to kill the ideology.
Now, she's also talking about
history here and
and how things ended up
the way they did in Gaza
and in the West Bank.
And I think that the history
is obviously long.
It's complicated, it's complex.
And it's good
for all of us to remind ourselves
of of how we got here.
But it's also important to remember that
we still believe in a two-State solution
in the United States.
We still President Biden still supports
this as a
is a viable vision and a promise
for both in a Jewish Democratic state
and a free and independent
Palestinian state.
That is a way
we believe that both sides
can live in peace
and security going forward.
And even though we're
in the middle of a conflict, Bill,
President hasn't given up on that.
And we're continuing
to talk to our partners
throughout the region
about how to get back on track
to some sort of viable two state,
two state solution here.
John Kirby,
we appreciate at the time
and your ability
to fight through the leaf blowers
behind you. Thank you, sir.
I appreciate it as always. You bet.